.\" Manpage for genxword.
.TH genxword 6 "06/03/2012" "0.2.4" "genxword man page"
.SH NAME
genxword \- a crossword generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
genxword [\-a] [\-n] [\-o] [\-t] infile saveformat
.SH DESCRIPTION
genxword is a crossword generator written in Python. It reads words and clues,
or just words, from a text file. The crossword that is generated can be saved,
with the clues, as a pdf file, and/or it can be saved in png/svg format,
together with a text file containing the word bank and clues.
.PP
The infile is a text file containing words and clues, or just words.
Each word, or word and clue, should be on a separate line, and there should 
be a space between the word and clue. In the following example, the word is 'excalibur'
and the clue is 'The sword that a moistened bint lobbed at Arthur':
.TP
.PP
excalibur The sword that a moistened bint lobbed at Arthur.
.PP
Saveformat refers to the file format that you want the crossword saved as.
You can save it as an A4-sized pdf (p), letter-sized pdf (l), or you can save 
the image files as png (n) and/or svg (s) files. If you choose to save the files in 
png/svg format, the word bank and clues will be saved in a text file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-a, \-\-auto
Run genxword non-interactively. Use this option if you want to run the program via a script.
If you use this option, the grid will be made larger and the crossword recalculated
until the crossword uses 90% or more of the words supplied.
.TP
\-n, \-\-number
The number of words to be used from the word list file, which can contain thousands 
of words. The default number is 50.
.TP
\-o, \-\-output
The name of the crossword. You can also choose the name while running the program.
If you save the crossword as a pdf file, this name will be used as the title of the crossword.
.TP
\-t, \-\-time
The time used to calculate the crossword. The default is 1 second.
.TP
\-h, \-\-help
Print basic information about how to use the program.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Create a crossword using the word_list.txt file and save it as an A4-sized pdf.
.B genxword word_list.txt p
.TP
Create a crossword using 40 words from the word_list.txt file and save the grid and key in \
png and svg format, together with a text file containing the word bank and clues.
.B genxword \-n 40 word_list.txt ns
.TP
Create a crossword called "Monty" using non-interactive mode with words from the word_list.txt file \
and save it as a letter-sized pdf file.
.B genxword \-a \-o Monty word_list.txt l
.SH SEE ALSO
https://github.com/riverrun/genxword
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
This program was originally written by Bryan Helmig and has since been developed by David Whitlock (alovedalongthe@gmail.com)
